---
layout: default
title: Rails developer London
subtitle: Experienced and professional. Specialising in E-Commerce, conversion optimisation, and automated SEO.
---
* "Professional Services Offered":#services
* "Why Hire Me?":#why_hire
* "Testimonials":#testimonials
* "Education":#education
* "Contact":#contact_me

h2(#services). Professional Services Offered

I am a full-stack *Rails Developer in London* who builds web applications such as "Oxbridge Notes":http://www.oxbridgenotes.co.uk and "Hired Help":http://www.hiredhelp.ie. I have four years experience with Ruby and the Ruby on Rails web framework and it associated technologies, CSS, the HTTP protocol, Linux, the cloud infrastructure, and, to a lesser albeit growing extent, Javascript.

h2(#why_hire). Why Hire Me?

h3. Technical Competence 

I have a track record of building, deploying, and maintaining web applications such as those in my "portfolio":/portfolio.html. I attend "Ruby conferences":http://scottishrubyconference.com/ and "Ruby meetups":http://rubyireland.com/. I've contributed to over fifteen "open source projects":https://github.com/jackkinsella, I "blog about Ruby":/blog.html, I answer programming questions in "forums":http://stackoverflow.com/users/286286/jack-kinsella, and I'm writing a book on Rails best practices. 

h3. Reliable, Bug Free Code

I practice TDD, which means, amongst others things, that I design my software in a way that it can automatically verify itself following every release. This means you won't have to hire a tester to manually run through every page in a browser. Although TDD takes more time than conventional coding, the safeguards against bugs make it the coding practice of choice for those who demand high quality stable software, such as LinkedIn, Facebook, Google,and 37Signals.

h3. Open Source Technology

I'm familiar with the key open-source libraries in Ruby/Rails, and I use these in place of writing custom code. Less custom code means I spend less time building your application and you receive a smaller bill for my services.

h3. Advice on Commerial Considerations

A web programmer's job isn't just to program; his job is also to advise on technical considerations and online business. 

Drawing from my experience seeing projects grow from napkin scribbles to unmanned money-making machines, I try to point out key features that you may be omitting, and, equally, expensive but pointless functionality you might want to include. I'm one of the only Rails developers in London who offers this service. Here is a small sample of the issues on which I will advise:

* *SEO strategy*: By far the cheapest traffic comes through high ranks in organic search. Through years of experimentation I've found a technique to increase organic traffic dramatically, three-fold in the most recent case. I will help you build SEO into the core of your application. Having the greatest web app on the net means nothing if no-one ever finds it.

* *Tracking Key Performance Indicators*: The three big advantages of doing business online are automation of repetitive tasks, low overheads, and *the ability to track and analyse data*. By monitoring KPIs such as sign ups, uploads, sales in a particular category and time spent on individual pages, you can make informed decisions about your business, leading to a competitive edge.  I'll advise you on how to integrate tracking at every level of your application, and display the data in a summary form you can easily digest.
* *Backup Solutions*: Losing your customer's data will ruin your business's reputation and may even force you to shut down your business. I'll discuss and implement an appropriate backup solution for your application. 
* *Security Against Hacking*: Hacked accounts and leaked personal details will cost your business dearly. I use the latest security best practices to prevent common hacks, such as SQL injection, Cross-Site-Forgery, Cross-Site-Scripting and Mass Assignment overrides.

h3. Based in London

As a Ruby on Rails programmer based in London I can meet you in person for regular updates on your project, and I can do your development on location.  

h2(#testimonials). What Other People Have Said About Me

bq. "Insanely committed to learning and developing his skills; helped to architect a social networking site driven by his passion for understanding people and the way they think. Not to mention his dizzying energy and work ethic. Work for him, work with him, get him to work for you -really can't go wrong, one in 6 billion."
??Amaru Villanueva Rance, Innovation Analyst, "giffgaff":http://giffgaff.com/??

bq. "Jack is an innovative and dedicated professional with strong drive and energy. He has a keen eye for commercial opportunities and is honing his skills by developing new business models that exploit emerging technologies and services. Jack is worth meeting, and he will add value to a business idea."
??Sheila Doyle, Chief Information Officer, "British Petroleum":http://www.bp.com??

bq. "Jack is extremely professional and extremely familiar with the latest internet technologies to date...There are absolutely no management issues when working with Jack"
??Chee Yeo, Founder, "29 Steps":http://29steps.co.uk/??

bq. "Ever since hiring Jack to do our internet marketing we've never been busier -- despite the recession."
??Frank Kinsella (Related), "Western Laser Clinic":http://www.westernlaserclinic.ie??

h2(#education). Education

I've been working with computers ever since my father brought home a green-text-on-black-background terminal when I was four years old. Over the years I taught myself to program through tinkering, studying "classic texts in computer science":http://www.cc2e.com/, and watching "MIT open courseware":http://ocw.mit.edu/index.htm lectures in math and computer science. 

Given my lifelong interest I didn't see the need to pursue computer science at third level, and so I chose to study law at "Oxford":http://www.ox.ac.uk/. I took my studies seriously and learned a great deal about economics, politics and legal issues, and I gained written and verbal clarity through my efforts to improve my communication skills. 

I scored one of the highest results in Ireland in the Leaving Certificate, earning As in math, physics, chemistry, biology and English and French. 

I speak fluent Spanish, having lived in Spain and worked in Bolivia.
